tilted thunder rail Birds present
Bank track roller derby so you want to
know how the game is played a bout is
divided into four quarters at 15 minutes
each those 15 minute quarters are
divided into periods up to 60 seconds
called jams each team has up to five
players on the track during a jam at the
beginning of a jam a whistle will be
blown in the pack or the group of
skaters at the front known as blockers
will take off shortly after that there
are two quick whistle blasts and the
jammers or the players with the stars on
their helmets sprint off the line
it is the jammers job to get through the
pack as quickly as possible the blockers
job is to hinder the opposing teams
blockers and jammer while assisting
their own jammer through the pack once
the jammers are through the pack
watch for the jammer in the foremost
position she's known as your lead jammer
if you missed it you can spot her by the
ref signalling an L above his or her
head and pointing at the skater this can
change depending on who the foremost
jammer is during the jam the jammers
race around to catch the pack the second
and each additional pass through the
pack is known as a scoring pass now the
jammers can start earning one point for
each opposing blocker she passes while
she is on the track the jammer can be
hindered by the opposing teams bloggers
players may block using their hips booty
and shoulders however things like
elbowing grabbing or shoving the
opposing team are prohibited and will
get you sent to the penalty box located
on the infield
unlike flat track Derby players are not
sent off the track during a jam all
penalties are served during the next jam
by the player who committed the
infraction
a jam ends after 60 seconds are when the
lead jammer calls off the jam by placing
her hands on her hips repeatedly
the game ends at the end of four
quarters and the team with the most
points wins thank you for supporting TT
RB